plb?
Yes! What do you want
Law?
All the rules of conduct established and enforced by the authority, legislation or custom of a given community, state or other group is called law.
what is law?
All the rules of conduct established and enforced by the authority, legislation or custom of a given community, state or other group is called law.
Attorney?
Attorney is a person appointed by another to represent or look after their interests, normally by the grant of a power of attorney.
what is attonery?
Attorney is a person appointed by another to represent or look after their interests, normally by the grant of a power of attorney.
Lawyer?
Lawyer is a person who has been trained in law, especially one whose profession is advising others in matters of law or representing them in laws.
who is lawyer?
Lawyer is a person who has been trained in law, especially one whose profession is advising others in matters of law or representing them in laws.
Law Maker?
It is a person who makes or helps to make laws especially a member of legislature; legislator
wjo is law-maker?
It is a person who makes or helps to make laws especially a member of legislature; legislator
Bail?
The conditional release from custody of an accused person upon the surety of others, who are forfeit the sums of money specified when bail is granted, should the accused fail to attend at the future appointed time and place.
Bailee?
A person to whom the possession of goods is entrusted by another (the bailor) usually the owner.o transfer of ownership is involved and the bailee is bound to take care of the goods and deliver them up when requested.
Bailiff?
This is an officer of the Court, subordinate to the chief, who normally undertakes such duties as the serving of writs, seizure of goods, eviction and carrying out other court orders.
fundamental rights?
Right to Freedom, Right to Equality, Right against Exploitation, Right to Freedom of Religion, Cultural and Educational rights and Right to constitutional remedies
what are the fundamental rights?
Right to Freedom, Right to Equality, Right against Exploitation, Right to Freedom of Religion, Cultural and Educational rights and Right to constitutional remedies